---
Title: Seaborn 101
Date: 2022-06-20
Tags: Seaborn
Category: Python
Slug: Seaborn
Authors: Frank Corso
Summary: TBD
Description: TBD
Status: draft
---
When working with data in Python, there are many times where you will need to analysis or visualize the data. For example, maybe you are quickly looking for outliers or are creating a few charts to be shared.

There are many libraries for creating graphs. The most common is matplotlib. However, that can be a lot lower-level than you need most of the time and has a steep learning curve.

This is where seaborn comes in. [Seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org) is a library built on top of matplotlib and makes the process of creating charts from data sets simple.

## Seaborn Basics

Seaborn is tightly integrated with Pandas so you can pass almost an data frame as the data set. Additionally, you can use a variety of other data structures too. Let’s take a look at the minimum steps for using Seaborn.

When creating a chart with Seaborn, there are only a few required steps as shown in the code below.

```python

# Import Seaborn, usually aliased as sns.

import seaborn as sns

# Create a sample dictionary of x,y values.
data = {
    'a': 1,
    'b': 2,
    'c': 3,
    'd': 4
}

# Create a basic line chart.
sns.lineplot(data=data)

```

This will create a line chart using all the default options assuming the dictionary pairs are x, y values as shown in the screenshot below.

FRANK: INSERT SCREENSHOT

Seaborn includes a variety of methods for built-in chart types including `lineplot`, `countplot`, `relplot`, and `boxplot`.

## Creating a Line Chart Using Pandas Dataframes

In a lot of cases, you will start with a Pandas data frame with multiple columns. In this case, it will work in almost the same way except we can pass the x and y names.

Let’s start with a basic dataframe that contains data about orders on a website.

## Improving Your Chart

While the default graphs might work for just quickly visualizing a data set, you will often need to share these charts. With Seaborn, you have many ways to alter a chart, such as using a Seaborn helper method or using a matplotlib function on the return chart instance.

### Adding Labels

First, let’s add the title. To do this, we can chain the `set` method directly on the chart call.

```python
sns.lineplot().set(title='Costs go up')
```

We can also use this to set the axis labels by setting the `xlabel` and `ylabel` values.

```python
sns.lineplot().set(title='Costs go up', xlabel='', ylabel='')
```

This works well if we are just adding some text to the chart. But, what if we want to adjust size or positioning? We could use global Seaborn values, such as font scale to adjust all font sizes.

```python
sns.set(font_scale=2)
```

However, you will often need to adjust specific labels or titles. To do this, we can access the underlying matplotlib values as shown in this code:

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
sns.lineplot()
plt.title('Costs go up', fontsize=20)
plt.xlabel('What', fontsize=16)
plt.ylabel('Who?', fontsize=16)
```

### Adjusting Styles



TBD

# Next Steps

Now that you know how to create a basic graph using Seaborn, go ahead and try to create a few charts. From there, you will want to try to export the chart to an image to be shared.